# Sports-Analytics---IPL-Analytics

With the advent of the fast-paced T20 format in cricket and the financially lucrative business model that it brings along, analytics in cricket is now more important than ever. When a single ball, a run or even an extra conceded can prove to be the difference between the winner and the loser--refined, deep, and real-time analytics are priceless and the need-of-hour. Analytics is not just used during a match or the tournament, but also right from scouting for players to building the squad during an auction. Big-pocket franchises like the Rajasthan Royals and Perth Scorchers now carry around a full-fledged team of analysts who work round the year in preparation for the lucrative two-month summer season tournament-further showcasing the importance of data analytics in the sport. With this project, we intend to demonstrate how refined analytics that goes beyond just conventional strike rates and averages, can help teams make more sound off-the-field decisions that can give them an edge in a player vs player on-field battle. We are using data from all Indian Premier League matches played from its inception in 2008 until the 2022 season. In this project, we have analyzed individual player performance based on conditions like pitch type, stadium dimensions, opposition player, bowler type, and ball type in specific match scenarios. This analysis can be used further to decide which player to consider in critical match conditions in order to win the match. 
